### Ccls
Every [[Group action#Action on itself|conjugacy class]] in $A_n$ is either the same as in $S_n$ or it splits into two. Moreover, $ccl_{A_n}(\sigma)$ splits if and only if the [[Permutation groups#Cycle type|cycle type]] of $\sigma$ has distinct odd numbers.
#### Proof
Let $\sigma\in A_n$ with $(l_1\dots l_k)$. 
Note that: $$|ccl_{S_n}(\sigma)|\cdot |C_{S_n}(\sigma)|=|S_n|$$
$$|ccl_{A_n}(\sigma)|\cdot |C_{A_n}(\sigma)|=|A_n|=|S_n|/2$$
Also $ccl_{A_n}(\sigma)\subseteq ccl_{S_n}(\sigma)$ and $C_{A_n}(\sigma)\subseteq C_{S_n}(\sigma)$. So either the centralizer splits into $2$ or the conjugacy class splits into 2. 
Centralizer splits iff there is some odd $\tau \in C_{S_n}(\sigma)$. Now if any $l_i$ are even then there is an odd cycle (note odd cycles have even legth) in the [[Permutation groups#Unique factorisation|unique factorisation]] of $\sigma$. This cycle has to be in $C_{S_n}(\sigma)$. Furthermore, if there are two disjoint cycles of equal odd lengths, say $\sigma=(12\dots r)(a_1a_2\dots a_r)$ then $\tau=(1a_1)\dots(ra_r)$ is odd and $\tau\sigma\tau^{-1}=\sigma$. Hence $\tau\in C_{S_n}(\sigma)$ so it splits. 
Finally, if the cycle type consists of different odd numbers, let $\sigma=\sigma_1\dots \sigma_k$. If $\tau\in C_{S_n}(\sigma)$ then $\tau\sigma_i\tau^{-1}=\sigma_i$ for all $i$, hence $\tau=\sigma_1^{r_1}\dots \sigma_k^{r_k}$. Hence there are $l_1l_2\dots l_k$ choices for $\tau$ so $|C_{S_n}(\sigma)|$ is odd and cannot split, so $ccl$ splits. Alternatively, $\tau$ is always a product of even cycles (odd length cycles) hence $\tau\in A_n$.
### Lemma
Every $A_n$ is generated by 3-cycles. 
#### Proof
Every $\sigma\in A_n$ is a product of an even number of transpositions. Now note (for $a\neq b\neq c\neq a$):
$$(ab)(bc)=(c ab)\quad\quad (ab)(cd)=(abc)(bcd)$$
Hence done.

### Lemma
If $n\geq 5$ then all 3-cycles are conjugate to each other (in $A_n$)
#### Proof
Note that they are conjugate in $S_n$ (same cycle-type), so for $(abc)=\sigma(123)\sigma^{-1}$ for some $\sigma\in S_n$. If $\sigma$ is odd, take $\sigma(45)\in A_n$, hence done. 

### Theorem simple alternating
$A_n$ is simple for $n\geq 5$. 
#### Proof
Let $1\neq N\triangleleft A_n$. If $N$ contains a 3-cycle, then it contains all 3-cycles so it has to be $N=A_n$ by previous lemmata. Find any $\sigma\in N$ and write it as a product of disjoint cycles:
1. $\sigma = (1 2 \dots r)\tau$ where $r\geq 4$ and $\tau$ fixes $1,2,\dots r$. Compute:$$\sigma^{-1}(321)\sigma(123)=(r23)$$ hence $(r23)\in N$.
2. $\sigma=(123)(456)\tau$ where $\tau$ fixes $1,2,\dots 6$. Compute:$$\sigma^{-1}(412)\sigma(124)=(12463)$$ so by Case 1. we are done
3. If $\sigma$ has at most one 3-cycle, no bigger cycles, and is not a 3-cycle itself it has to have at least 2 transpositions (otherwise its not even). $\sigma=(12)(34)\tau$. Consider first: $$\sigma^{-1}(321)\sigma(123)=(14)(23)=\pi$$ Now consider $$\pi^{-1}(521)\pi(125)=(12345)$$ so we are done by Case 1. (Note, we used $n\geq 5$ *again*).